An SVA at UW-Eau Claire will have mostly UW-Eau Claire student members, but it’s possible that some
members may not be students (e.g. faculty, community members). The database will store the
following information about SVA members: first name, last name, student number (if a UW-Eau Claire
student), gender, date of birth, address, mobile phone number, and email address.



The SVA will be run by the Executive Committee (EC), whose members are all UW-Eau Claire students.
This committee consists of the President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, two Logistics Officers,
two Events Managers, a Communications Manager, two Marketing Managers, a Webmaster, three
Academic Volunteering Coordinators, two In-School Mentors, and five Platoon Leaders. Each member of
the SVA is assigned to a Platoon Leader, unless the person is member of the executive committee. For
each executive committee member, the database should store: first name, last name, short biography,
something unique about that person, their position in the committee, and their mobile phone number.
SVA members can apply to be a member of the executive committee (if they are UW-Eau Claire
students).

 There is a deadline for applications every year. Applications need to be submitted by the 15th
of September each year. Some of the positions on the executive committee require special skills. For 
example, the Logistics Officer must have a full driving license, Marketing Managers must have
experience with design software, and the Webmaster must have appropriate Web development
experience. The database should track what experience is required for each position.


In order to register a particular job for the SVA, Eau Claire residents can call a toll-free phone number,
send a text message or enter their request via a website. For each registered job, the database should
store information about how the job was registered (toll-free call number, text message or website), the
name of the resident, description of help needed, address, preferred date and time. The Events
Managers process the registered jobs and prioritize them. They also add additional information about
jobs that are selected to be carried out (as events): the estimated number of volunteers needed and the
number of hours per volunteer. Note that not all registered jobs will actually become events, due to
limited resources.
The SVA will conduct a variety of events, some of which come from the community, and others are
events suggested by the executive committee or SVA members. Events are classified into one of the
following categories:
- Muscle (gardening, painting, cleaning etc.)
- Dish it up (e.g. feeding the homeless)
- Green (Sustaining, diversifying, growing our future)
- Outreach (Reaching out, raising funds, and securing our future)
- Creativity (beautifying, painting, etc.)
- Other (e.g. helping Red Cross to pack winter clothes, help in running the local food pantry’s BBQ
dinner)
The following details need to be stored for each event: event name, category, start date and time, end
date and time, location (i.e. the meeting place), description, contact person (i.e. the member of SVA in
charge of the event), and contact email address. For some events, there might be additional notes
added (e.g. “Bring your own drink bottle and warm comfy clothing”). An event might be repeated several
times; e.g. the local food pantry community BBQs may be running on several weekends. Some events
have reward(s) given to each volunteer by a particular partner (e.g. free Subway voucher provided by
Subway Bush Inn). For each event, the event manager prepares the initial budget which needs to be
approved by the Treasurer and the EC. The database needs to track which official(s) has approved a
budget and on which date.
SVA members and people from the community can sign up for events (via the Web page or the SVA
app). The information that needs to be stored from non-members of SVA assigned to an event includes
first name, last name and contact details (email address and mobile phone number).
The SVA has a number of partners, which are community organizations (government, non-profit or
businesses). Details of partner organisations are saved in the database, including the
business/organization name, logo, information about the contact person from each organization (first
name, last name, email address and mobile phone number), and the organization’s office address. Some
partners provide monetary donations, while others provide in-kind support, rewards for volunteers, or
participate in the events (e.g., City Care might organize collection of green waste for Green events).
Multiple partner organisations may support and/or participate in any event.
SVA publish news articles on their website which also need to be stored in the database. The
information about each news article consists of its title, date posted, article URL, URL of image inserted
in the article and the text of the article.
The university wishes to formally recognize students’ volunteer work, including volunteering for SVA.
The SVA database therefore needs to store information about the events a particular student
participated in, including the total number of hours (to the nearest quarter hour) worked on an event
by each student. This participation information should also be tracked for non-student volunteers.
Typical queries that the database should support include the following:
• Find all volunteers who participated in Muscle events in 2020.
• Find all news articles posted between January 2020 and March 2020.
• Find all Green events in which the Eau Claire City Council participated as